- It's important to a hold a circle of friends during this time in university who are good for and to you!
- This is likely an easier time to get married due to location and the amount of Muslims at uni, so long as you follow all the needed parameters (witnesses, agreeing between families etc)
- A healthy and properly Islamically contracted relationship will only bring you good.
- One example of a big contract we make is our university contract. We choose this contract with the forethought of our life and what moves we want to make etc.
- Many times match-up and nikah sites are used as a last resort, maybe a person does not have the network or people he knows to find a wife, so these years may be a better time to find one 🤔
- Many people have different mindsets about when they want to get married 😲🤔 still Allah has made us with the want for companionship
- Often when you have a wife and kids they will be your best motivator to work hard. "Innovation is the product of difficulty" You have to work hard to provide for them in that sense
- With these changes in life your priorities change, maybe you'd want a nice car now but later you would want a stable property to live in
- Many people think marriage is exclusive from piety, that if you want to be pious you can't get married, that is wrong! We are made with that need and catering to that need through marriage does not defect your piety. Nor does getting married early defect you.
- We should incentivise and encourage marriage! Amongst ourselves especially, we should aid eachother in good not evil.
- We're at an age, a condition of maturity and mental wellness, in which we should be able to get married.
- A lot of people don't consider it but marriage is a step to becoming closer to Allah! It protects you and your spouse from many fitnah (troubles). But also remember that you shouldn't view marriage with the idea of just desires, it's a long term commitment and it requires that Islamic and inwards perspective. Character, conduct, how they support others, etc that's all important when considering your spouse.
- Even divorce through sharia is long, because thoughtfulness is important!! It gives you time to consider it, because you must be sound of mind and not obstructed by anger etc so you can decide if this is the best choice.
- This thoughtfulness can even be applied to the dua you make for marriage, not only considering your physical desires but your closeness to Allah through the marriage.
- A beautiful example of this closeness to Allah through marriage is Zakariyyah AS who wanted a child in his later years and because of his dua and devotion Allah granted him such. (Look at Surah Maryam for this in detail)
- Something good to consider is that we don't focus so much on requirements and leave it up to Allah. Many men want X Y Z for their wife but do not have such great qualities themselves, rather we should focus on what we can give and who we can be for them. Perfection is not a quality of this world! Prophets like Musa (AS) and Ayyub (AS) left their solution up to Allah, asked Him for whatever He can give them, (Quran 28:24, 21:83).
- Many people want great mahr, which is permissible, but small mahr is also okay. A marriage with little burden is great though! (Look at Saḥīḥ Ibn Ḥibbān 4163).
- In a lot of cultures, men's wives are treated like maids amongst their families. This is horribly wrong! Yes our wives need to cater for our children and aid us but these relationships are separate. You treat your wife a certain way and your family a certain way. Both have responsibilities, expectations, etc. This is another example of burdens, we shouldn't amass burdens like that.
- You should behave the way that instills what you want from someone, this applies to marriage. If you have a set of standards then you should act like it, so that those around you including your *wife* mirror those standards! Live by and set these standards! Fairness is important in all sorts of dealings in life.
- The Prophet SAW had different wives across his life, of different levels of faith, different appearances etc, but he SAW treated them all equally fairly. Both men and women in a relationship should follow their examples.
- Something to note, mahr when agreed doesn't have to be paid fully before marriage. 
- A lot of people spend toons on stuff that doesn't matter, like football games or whatever, but we should be equally generous for important things like what we spend for our wives.
- If you are pious then a good woman's heart will soften to such. Piety is entwined with respect and dedication. Allah makes those around you closer to you when you're close to Him. Again, leading by example is huge! Your devotion to Allah will affect how those around you treat you! If you've been missing your salah or maybe you've not been focused in salah recently, maybe those around you or the problems you face will change. 😳
- The best places of support and guidance in marriage are dua, your parents (if they are supportive), your imam. These people will have networks and knowledge! We will not always know how marriage or any sort of sustenance will come to us! (See Sunan Ibn Majah 4164).
- "Pillars" of Nikah according to Hanafi school of law: Proposition/acceptance with mahr, the guardian or "wali" and condition of the witness. The Hanafi school of law does also say that the woman can go forth with marriage without the wali, however this is a heavily refuted idea among other schools! This idea is also often pushed back as if it was mainstream, many will take advantage and manipulate it to do other things under the guise of following that idea.
- This idea of marriage without a wali is sourced in the Qur'an, many ideas from the Hanafi school of law consider Qur'an as it's viewed that the Qur'an will be considered over the Hadith lest the Hadith is without doubt. Another example is joining salah while travelling! You can't mix and match madhabs also, note that.
- Sometimes with a marriage, X person will not be happy. The bride's father, your own relative, whoever. It's best you convince them to avoid a bad relationship, as it will affect your ties with those around you. Bring an imam or whoever to convince, do what's necessary as if you proceed with the marriage while some are not happy with it amongst your family or her family then it will defect your relationship with them. 😢
- You shouldn't always be black and white with your relationships! Be caring and considerate with your wife. We should lead by compassion and mercy! Follow the example of the Prophet SAW!
- Sometimes people over time lose attraction to their spouse. This is a human thing, it's normal, but we don't have to end the relationship because of this. We can make dua for Allah to change our hearts, and also importantly control our gaze. If you don't look towards other women with desire, i.e., celebrities, singers, then your wife will be the most beautiful person in your eyes!
- We don't live in an ideal world. Maybe when you get married you can't move in together immediately! Maybe you can't hold the walimah immediately, this is all okay. Manage it, if you can't do it then do something substitute! If you can't move in, see each other regularly and visit. If you can't do walimah immediately, delay it so everyone can join. Etc!
- When courting a woman, during the initial meeting you're allowed to see her face and hands. In this scenario you are pursuing marriage so this gaze is permissible, you are looking for attraction.